README.rst, before:

IntroToRobotics 
===============
Introduction to Robotics Curriculum

A list of rules to follow while documenting a .rst file:

Style Guide
-----------
* Follow the appropriate `Headings`_ format.

* Refer to the 'folders' as ``'Modules'`` and files as ``'Pages'`` in this documentation.

* Add captions to important images. Checkout the `Inserting images`_ section to learn how to insert images. 

* Write code snippets in boxes. Checkout the `Documenting code snippets`_ section. 

* Put in links whenever other pages are linked. Open a new tab for a link.

    Formatting lists --
  
    * Use numbered lists if they’re steps of a process/ algorithm, etc. Use bullet lists otherwise.
    
    * Always have the topic of the list or description of the list directly beforehand. Add colons.
    
    * No spaces between different list points or heading of the list and first list point.
    
    * Indent sub-lists.
    
    * If a numbered sub-list is below a numbered list, use letters.

* Highlight text as per the importance. Checkout `Highlighting text`_ for more details.

* Use a sphinx “note” to refer to things about the course?

* Use a sphinx “reminder” to refer to things about the course?

* Draw boxes in images when a part in the image needs to be highlighted.

Pending tasks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove the “indices and tables” section from index.rst

* Introduce “challenge activities”? Other activities? Is there a difference?

* How do we ask questions? What are the different types of questions?  

* Add captions to important images 

* Find an appropriate name for python programming notes

Headings
--------

* **Main Heading** - usually the title of the module, underline the main title using '=' operator. Make sure the number of '=' sign is more than the number of characters of the title. For example:: 
  
     Main Heading
     ============

* **Sub Heading** - underline the sub title using '-' operator. Make sure the number of '-' sign is more than the number of characters of the sub title. For example:: 
  
     Sub Heading
     -----------

* **Sub sub Heading** - underline the sub sub title using '~' operator. Make sure the number of '~' sign is more than the number of characters of the sub sub title. For example:: 
  
     Sub Sub Heading
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


An example of the above headings can be seen in this image below:

.. figure:: headings.jpg
    :width: 800
    
    The above three headings.
  
The code for the above image::

      Main Heading
      ============

      Sample Text 1

      Sub Heading
      -----------

      Sample Text 2

      Sub Sub Heading
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

      Sample Text 3

Inserting images
----------------

An image is inserted by using the following code::

     .. figure:: media/image1.jpg
        :width: 100
        
   This is the caption.

This command will attach the image titled 'image1' with the '.jpg' extension and width 100, located in the folder titled 'media' relative to the current directory.

Documenting code snippets
-------------------------

``.. code-block:: programming_language`` is used to write a piece of code in your documentation. For example, including the following lines in your .rst file::

      .. code-block:: python
      
      if sonarDistance > targetDistance:

            set a positive effort (move forwards)

      if sonarDistance < targetDistance:

            set a negative effort (move backwards)

would get you the following output:

  .. code-block:: python
      
      if sonarDistance > targetDistance:

            set a positive effort (move forwards)

      if sonarDistance < targetDistance:

            set a negative effort (move backwards)



Highlighting text
-----------------
* use ``single asterisk``: (``*text*``) for making the text *italics*.
* use ``double asterisks``: (``**text**``) for making the text **bold**.
* use ``double backquotes``: (````text````) for ``highlighting`` the text. Highlight all filenames that have been mentioned as plain text in this documentation. For example: "Let us refer to the code in ``motors.py``." Here, in this plain text, the general rule is to highlight the filename.



Inserting tables
----------------

Use::

      .. list-table:: Title
         :widths: 25 25 50
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Heading row 1, column 1
           - Heading row 1, column 2
           - Heading row 1, column 3
         * - Row 1, column 1
           -
           - Row 1, column 3
         * - Row 2, column 1
           - Row 2, column 2
           - Row 2, column 3

This would output the following table:

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Heading row 1, column 1
     - Heading row 1, column 2
     - Heading row 1, column 3
   * - Row 1, column 1
     -
     - Row 1, column 3
   * - Row 2, column 1
     - Row 2, column 2
     - Row 2, column 3
     
     
Math Equations
--------------
Use::

      .. math::

         (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

         \pi * x = \frac{5}{17}

This would output the following equation:

.. math::

   (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

   \pi * x = \frac { 5 } { 17 }     % the fraction looks perfect in Readthedocs, there is some issue with viewing it in Github. 
      
Using tabs
==========
An example usage of tabs and the youtube extension can be found below.

.. code::

  .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: Label1
          :sync: key1

          .. code-block:: java

              System.out.println("Hello world");

      .. tab-item:: Label2
          :sync: key2

          .. code-block:: cpp

              std::out << "hello world";

  .. youtube:: dQw4w9WgXcQ

Commit message:

add hyperlink for readthedocs website to readme

README.rst, after:

IntroToRobotics 
===============

This is the active development repository for the readthedocs curriculum, found here:
https://introtoroboticsv2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

Introduction to Robotics Curriculum

A list of rules to follow while documenting a .rst file:

Style Guide
-----------
* Follow the appropriate `Headings`_ format.

* Refer to the 'folders' as ``'Modules'`` and files as ``'Pages'`` in this documentation.

* Add captions to important images. Checkout the `Inserting images`_ section to learn how to insert images. 

* Write code snippets in boxes. Checkout the `Documenting code snippets`_ section. 

* Put in links whenever other pages are linked. Open a new tab for a link.

    Formatting lists --
  
    * Use numbered lists if they’re steps of a process/ algorithm, etc. Use bullet lists otherwise.
    
    * Always have the topic of the list or description of the list directly beforehand. Add colons.
    
    * No spaces between different list points or heading of the list and first list point.
    
    * Indent sub-lists.
    
    * If a numbered sub-list is below a numbered list, use letters.

* Highlight text as per the importance. Checkout `Highlighting text`_ for more details.

* Use a sphinx “note” to refer to things about the course?

* Use a sphinx “reminder” to refer to things about the course?

* Draw boxes in images when a part in the image needs to be highlighted.

Pending tasks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove the “indices and tables” section from index.rst

* Introduce “challenge activities”? Other activities? Is there a difference?

* How do we ask questions? What are the different types of questions?  

* Add captions to important images 

* Find an appropriate name for python programming notes

Headings
--------

* **Main Heading** - usually the title of the module, underline the main title using '=' operator. Make sure the number of '=' sign is more than the number of characters of the title. For example:: 
  
     Main Heading
     ============

* **Sub Heading** - underline the sub title using '-' operator. Make sure the number of '-' sign is more than the number of characters of the sub title. For example:: 
  
     Sub Heading
     -----------

* **Sub sub Heading** - underline the sub sub title using '~' operator. Make sure the number of '~' sign is more than the number of characters of the sub sub title. For example:: 
  
     Sub Sub Heading
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


An example of the above headings can be seen in this image below:

.. figure:: headings.jpg
    :width: 800
    
    The above three headings.
  
The code for the above image::

      Main Heading
      ============

      Sample Text 1

      Sub Heading
      -----------

      Sample Text 2

      Sub Sub Heading
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

      Sample Text 3

Inserting images
----------------

An image is inserted by using the following code::

     .. figure:: media/image1.jpg
        :width: 100
        
   This is the caption.

This command will attach the image titled 'image1' with the '.jpg' extension and width 100, located in the folder titled 'media' relative to the current directory.

Documenting code snippets
-------------------------

``.. code-block:: programming_language`` is used to write a piece of code in your documentation. For example, including the following lines in your .rst file::

      .. code-block:: python
      
      if sonarDistance > targetDistance:

            set a positive effort (move forwards)

      if sonarDistance < targetDistance:

            set a negative effort (move backwards)

would get you the following output:

  .. code-block:: python
      
      if sonarDistance > targetDistance:

            set a positive effort (move forwards)

      if sonarDistance < targetDistance:

            set a negative effort (move backwards)



Highlighting text
-----------------
* use ``single asterisk``: (``*text*``) for making the text *italics*.
* use ``double asterisks``: (``**text**``) for making the text **bold**.
* use ``double backquotes``: (````text````) for ``highlighting`` the text. Highlight all filenames that have been mentioned as plain text in this documentation. For example: "Let us refer to the code in ``motors.py``." Here, in this plain text, the general rule is to highlight the filename.



Inserting tables
----------------

Use::

      .. list-table:: Title
         :widths: 25 25 50
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Heading row 1, column 1
           - Heading row 1, column 2
           - Heading row 1, column 3
         * - Row 1, column 1
           -
           - Row 1, column 3
         * - Row 2, column 1
           - Row 2, column 2
           - Row 2, column 3

This would output the following table:

.. list-table:: Title
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Heading row 1, column 1
     - Heading row 1, column 2
     - Heading row 1, column 3
   * - Row 1, column 1
     -
     - Row 1, column 3
   * - Row 2, column 1
     - Row 2, column 2
     - Row 2, column 3
     
     
Math Equations
--------------
Use::

      .. math::

         (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

         \pi * x = \frac{5}{17}

This would output the following equation:

.. math::

   (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

   \pi * x = \frac { 5 } { 17 }     % the fraction looks perfect in Readthedocs, there is some issue with viewing it in Github. 
      
Using tabs
==========
An example usage of tabs and the youtube extension can be found below.

.. code::

  .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: Label1
          :sync: key1

          .. code-block:: java

              System.out.println("Hello world");

      .. tab-item:: Label2
          :sync: key2

          .. code-block:: cpp

              std::out << "hello world";

  .. youtube:: dQw4w9WgXcQ
