course/course_info/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Introduction to Robotics
===================================
Welcome to the WPI Global STEM Education Initiative Introduction to Robotics 
class using the new XRP Robots. This class is intended to be used by instructors 
to learn about the basics of robotics and programming using either Blockly or Python. 
The course is designed to use the Python language. Or you may start with Blockly 
and switch to Python as you gain more familiarity with programming the robots.  

The class has several modules you can work through, starting with an introduction 
to robotics. Modules include driving, using sensors, and using the 
manipulator (robot arm). Finally, there is a challenging final project that 
brings together everything you have learned in the previous modules. The final 
challenge optionally has a rubric for scoring the runs completed by your 
students by adding some competitiveness to the class if you would like to use that.

.. image:: deliveryRobotImage.png

Final project delivery robot challenge (see final project module for more 
information)

We hope that you find this course fun and engaging for you and your students. 
This is a brand-new course with new robots and software, so there may be bugs 
and unexpected problems. We will strive to be responsive to any questions you 
might have. If you have any questions or find anything not working as you 
expect it to, feel free to contact us.

For additional information about the program, please see the XRP web page.

Commit message:

Added link toJoining platforms section from intro

course/course_info/index.rst, after:

Welcome to Introduction to Robotics
===================================
Welcome to the WPI Global STEM Education Initiative Introduction to Robotics 
class using the new XRP Robots. This class is intended to be used by instructors 
to learn about the basics of robotics and programming using either Blockly or Python. 
The course is designed to use the Python language. Or you may start with Blockly 
and switch to Python as you gain more familiarity with programming the robots.  

The class has several modules you can work through, starting with an introduction 
to robotics. Modules include driving, using sensors, and using the 
manipulator (robot arm). Finally, there is a challenging final project that 
brings together everything you have learned in the previous modules. The final 
challenge optionally has a rubric for scoring the runs completed by your 
students by adding some competitiveness to the class if you would like to use that.

.. image:: deliveryRobotImage.png

Final project delivery robot challenge (see final project module for more 
information)

We hope that you find this course fun and engaging for you and your students. 
This is a brand-new course with new robots and software, so there may be bugs 
and unexpected problems. We will strive to be responsive to any questions you 
might have. If you have any questions or find anything not working as you 
expect it to, feel free to contact us.

For questions and technical support for the XRP, see our Discourse server.
There are instructions on how to sign up in the :ref: `Joining Platforms`
section of this course.
