course/robot_control/distance_tracker.rst, before:

Distance Tracking 
=================

Now that we've covered on-off control, let's use that information to track an object from a certain distance. 

The Process
-----------

Essentially, we want our robot to go towards the object if it's too far and away from the object if it's too close. 

We can do this by using the distance sensor to determine how far away the object is and then using that information to determine how the direction in which the robot should be going.

For this activity, let's use a target distance of 30 cm. 

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < 30:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > 30:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/SimpleStandoff.png
            :width: 300

You'll notice that this code causes the robot to move back and forth, or oscillate, as the sonar distance continuously swaps between being greater than and less than 30 cm.
So what if we add a third case that tells the robot's motors to stop when sonar distance equals 30 cm?

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < 30:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > 30:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)
                else:
                    drivetrain.stop()


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/SimpleStandoffStop.png
            :width: 300

Unfortunately, even with this code, our robot still doesn't stop! The issue is that the distance sensor is so precise that it
never reads exactly 30 cm. We can combat this by making our robot stop when it's *close* to 30 cm instead of *exactly* 30 cm.
We can do this by creating a range in which our robot stops called a "deadband." Using a range of +- 2.5 cm, our new code would look like this:


.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < 27.5:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > 32.5:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)
                else:
                    drivetrain.stop()


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/deadband.png
            :width: 300

This code should allow the robot to stop when it senses a sonar distance of ~30 cm. Our issue now is that
there is a potential error of +- 2.5 cm from our desired following distance. Luckily, there is a solution to this called "proportional control."

Commit message:

small bugfixes, make variable instead of magic number

course/robot_control/distance_tracker.rst, after:

Distance Tracking 
=================

Now that we've covered on-off control, let's use that information to track an object from a certain distance. 

The Process
-----------

Essentially, we want our robot to go towards the object if it's too far and away from the object if it's too close. 

We can do this by using the distance sensor to determine how far away the object is and then using that information to determine how the direction in which the robot should be going.

For this activity, let's use a target distance of 30 cm. 

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            distance = 30
            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < distance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > distance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/SimpleStandoff.png
            :width: 500

You'll notice that this code causes the robot to move back and forth, or oscillate, as the sonar distance continuously swaps between being greater than and less than 30 cm.
So what if we add a third case that tells the robot's motors to stop when sonar distance equals 30 cm?

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            distance = 30
            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < distance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > distance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)
                else:
                    drivetrain.stop()


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/SimpleStandoffStop.png
            :width: 500

Unfortunately, even with this code, our robot still doesn't stop! The issue is that the distance sensor is so precise that it
never reads exactly 30 cm. We can combat this by making our robot stop when it's *close* to 30 cm instead of *exactly* 30 cm.
We can do this by creating a range in which our robot stops called a "deadband." Using a range of +- 2.5 cm, our new code would look like this:


.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            from XRPLib.rangefinder import Rangefinder

            rangefinder = Rangefinder.get_default_rangefinder()

            distance = 30
            tolerance = 2.5
            while True:
                if rangefinder.distance() < distance - tolerance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(-20, -20)
                elif rangefinder.distance() > distance + tolerance:
                    drivetrain.set_speed(20, 20)
                else:
                    drivetrain.stop()


    .. tab-item:: Blockly

        .. image:: media/deadband.png
            :width: 550

.. note:: 
    Notice how, instead of hardcoding numbers such as 27.5 and 32.5, we used variables. This gives us two benefits:
    
    1. We can easily change the desired distance and tolerance without having to change the code itself.
    
    2. It's much easier to decipher what the code is doing, using "magic" numbers like 27.5 and 32.5 can be confusing to read because the user has to figure out what those numbers mean.

This code should allow the robot to stop when it senses a sonar distance of ~30 cm. Our issue now is that
there is a potential error of 2.5 cm from our desired following distance. Luckily, in the next section, we'll learn about something called "proportional control"...
