course/XRPIntro/installing_tools.rst, before:

Things to do: 
Fix the 'Note' box


Installing the programming tools
================================

There are two programming languages used throughout this course, Blockly and Python.

Blockly
-------

This is a drag-and-drop graphical programming system similar to Scratch. Blockly is a
good choice for programming the robot, especially for learners with little to no
programming experience.  Does not easily scale for larger programs and is only
usable within the Blockly programming environment.



Python
------

A more widely-used language that scales well for larger programs and works with professional
programming tools such as Visual Studio Code and many others. The tool that will be used
throughout this course for python programming is Mu Editor, although a more professional
tool such as Visual Studio Code can also be used for writing CircuitPython code that is
used by the XPR Robot.

.. Note::

   A way to get students comfortable with programming more quickly is to start with
   Blockly getting through basic concepts such as functions, conditionals, loops,
   and all the basic robot operations. Then move to Python to complete the course,
   especially for some more complex challenges, such as the final project.
   This will allow for quick onboarding without having to learn too many new
   concepts at the same time. But the decision will depend on the level and experience
   of the students taking the course.

Commit message:

Update the tools section for XRPCode

course/XRPIntro/installing_tools.rst, after:

Installing the programming tools
================================

There are two programming languages used throughout this course, Blockly and Python.
Both languages are programmed on the XRP robot using XRPCode, an online interactive
development tool that can be used for developing programs in either language.

For more information about using XRPCode refer to the `XRP User Guide section on
XRPCode <https://xrpusersguide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/course/XRPCode.html>`_. 

Blockly
-------

This is a drag-and-drop graphical programming system similar to Scratch. Blockly is a
good choice for programming the robot, especially for learners with little to no
programming experience.  Does not easily scale for larger programs and is only
usable within the Blockly programming environment.



Python
------

A more widely-used language that scales well for larger programs and works with professional
programming tools such as Visual Studio Code and many others. The tool that will be used
throughout this course for python programming is Mu Editor, although a more professional
tool such as Visual Studio Code can also be used for writing CircuitPython code that is
used by the XPR Robot.

.. Note::

   One strategy for getting students comfortable with programming more quickly is to
   start with
   Blockly getting through basic concepts such as functions, conditionals, loops,
   and basic robot programming. Once students are familiar with those concepts
   it is an easy move to Python to complete the course,
   especially for some more complex challenges, such as the final project.
   This will allow for quick onboarding without having to learn too many new
   concepts at the same time. But the decision will depend on the level and experience
   of the students taking the course.
